David Vogelpohl: Hello,
everyone, and welcome back to
WordPress Accessibility Day.
My name is David Vogelpohl from
WP Engine, and I'm proud to be
your host for the session
"Using Smart Speakers for
Accessibility,"
with Chip Edwards.
I'm honored to introduce Chip
in his session, "Using Smart
Speakers for Accessibility."
Chip is a partner at
CreateMyVoice.com.
He helps content producers
engage audiences on smart
speakers like Amazon
Alexa and Google Home.
Chip is a teacher--hopefully
he's a good one today--a
speaker, and technologist who
is passionate about connecting
WordPress content to
the new voice technology.
Chip, welcome, and
glad to have you here.
Chip Edwards: Thanks,
glad to be here
and be able to
talk with us about the session.
This is good stuff.
David: Looking forward to it.
Chip: Thanks, David.
I appreciate it.
Ready for me to share my screen?
David: Yes, sir, ready to go.
Let's get it goin'.
Chip: Okay, let's see.
David: I love your
background, by the way.
Chip: Oh, thank you, heh-heh.
Share computer sound 'cause
we're gonna do some today.
Let's see.
Hopefully that is
up and runnin'.
Okay, so we all care about
accessibility, including making
our websites accessible
for the visually impaired.
Stuff like using header tags
properly, makin' sure that the
alt text has
meaningful information.
These are important so that
screen readers can
turn our text into audio.
But today I wanna focus on how
the adoption of smart speakers
is changing how we
think about design.
If you think about it, smart
speakers are kind of like screen
readers but more so because
the primary interaction with our
content is verbal
instead of visual.
When thinking about voice-first
design, our mind-sets shift
because now we aren't talking
about doing something special
for the visually impaired.
With smart speakers, if your
content doesn't work well for
the visually impaired, it
doesn't work well for
anybody on the platform.
And before we get goin', I
want to acknowledge that
smart-speaker platforms are
not necessarily platforms for
accessibility, however, I wanna
show you how smart speakers are
causing a significant shift
in our UI/UX design thoughts.
Smart speakers are shifting
how we access compute resources.
And I'm gonna be using
some smart speakers today.
I'm actually recording some
of 'em, but it kind of doesn't
matter on your end.
So now would be a good time
to un-mute your Amazon
or your Google device.
Okay, there's three points
that I wanna cover in
the next few minutes.
First, let's talk about
how smart speakers or voice
assistants make tasks easier.
The goal is to reduce the
friction to getting stuff done,
to make it easier to find
things, to turn things on or
off, to get directions, to hear
content, in essence, to make our
lives more convenient and to
make it easier to get computers
to do things for us.
Next, I wanna demonstrate what's
currently happening with voice
assistants, and then lastly,
I wanna give you some bonus
material around verbal branding
and why you may want to secure
your verbal domain name
sooner as opposed to later.
So let's get started.
Smart speakers come in many
shapes and sizes and from a
number of manufacturers.
We're most familiar with
devices from Amazon and Google.
They've got, like, 85% of the
smart speakers out there, I
think, that are producing,
but there's many traditional
manufacturers of speakers as
well, and they're now making
their speakers smart by
adding microphones to them and
connecting 'em up to one or more
of the digital voice assistants,
almost always Amazon's or
Google's voice assistants, but
there are a few
others out there.
In a recent article on
Voicebot.ai, they reported on
where people are
putting these smart speakers.
While it used to be the living
room and the kitchen, now the
bedroom is the most
popular location at over 45%.
The living rooms got about
43%, and the kitchen with 41%.
The numbers add up to more than
100% because people are--once
they start using these devices,
they're finding them really
convenient, and so they're
actually putting--they're
actually purchasing multiple
smart speakers and putting 'em
in a number of locations.
By the way, now more than
13% are putting 'em in their
bathroom as well.
In an article titled "The Future
of Voice and the Implications
for News," published for the
Reuters Institute, Nic Newman
says, "Voice goes way
beyond smart speakers to become
embedded in every device",
because the tech companies view
these voice-assistant devices as
a way to support
and anticipate user needs.
These tech companies want to
have their voice assistants
everywhere so they can
help us anywhere we are.
In 2018, "The Wall Street
Journal" reported on Amazon's
direction for
their smart speakers.
"Amazon had more than 10,000
employees working on its Amazon
Alexa virtual assistant at the
time, and they wanted to expand
Alexa in the offices, cars, and
even hotel rooms," and they've
got more locations that they're
actually working on right now.
Matter of fact, have any of you
seen the latest Buick commercial
where they're arguing over
whether it's an SUV or an Alexa?
This idea of our voice
assistants being with us
everywhere is actually
starting to materialize.
Last year, Sundar Pichai, the
CEO of Google, said that he was
"Moving Google from a company
that helps you find answers to a
company that helps
you get things done."
Subtle shift, but they're
changing that, and as you look
at even the voice search
results, you see how they're
actually making
some of those shifts.
Well, it didn't
start off this way.
Now the same voice assistant
that's found in your smart
speaker is also in your
smartphone and in your cars,
and in the latest is in
wearables, like glasses
frames or earbuds.
My favorite place is
my earbuds actually.
Now my voice assistant can be
with me anywhere, places like
the gym, where I like to listen
to blogs and podcasts, and when
I'm in the grocery stores,
shopping, and I can just ask for
"Hey, what's on
my shopping list?"
I'll be glad when they have
these voice assistants
in every elevator.
There's already a
computer waiting for
somebody to touch the button.
Why do I have to
touch the button?
Why doesn't the computer
just respond when I say,
"Third floor, please"?
I'm predicting that voice
technology will continue to get
better, and soon, we'll start
relying on these devices because
they make tasks easy, and then,
just like our smartphone, we
won't know how we ever lived
without the voice assistant.
So now I'd like to demonstrate
how companies are currently
using voice technology.
Most people are familiar with
using their voice assistant for
things like turning on the
lights, adding items to shopping
lists, getting the news or the
weather or navigation, actually,
like letting Siri or Google
to find the best route home.
But Google and Amazon have
made a way for companies to make
these voice assistants
smarter by building a voice app.
Amazon calls these
voice apps "skills."
You may have heard that.
Google calls these
voice apps "actions."
I'll use the generic term of
"voice app" through
the rest of this.
But instead of me just telling
you what companies are doing, I
figured it would be
better for me to show you.
I just mentioned about using a
voice app to add capabilities to
these voice-assistant devices.
There's one new term
that you need to know.
It's called "invocation name,"
sometimes referred to as a
"verbal domain name."
So just like your website has a
domain name, your voice
app has an invocation name.
The invocation name is how
Google and Amazon know that the
user wants to talk
to your voice app.
You'll want to own
your invocation name.
Well, let's look at an example
of a voice app created
by Capital One.
Here's a screenshot from
the Capital One website.
Notice they're promoting the
Capital One voice
app to their customers.
I actually got a Capital One
credit card just to be able to
use their voice app.
Now, by using the Capital One
voice app, I don't need to sit
at my computer and
log into their website.
What if I could just ask for
what I need and let the computer
do all the work for me?
Check this out: Alexa, ask
Capital One what
my credit card balance is.
Alexa: Your current Quicksilver
card balance is $1,227.44.
Do you want to know
when this bill is due?
Chip: Yes, please.
Alexa: The payment of your
Quicksilver card is due
March 17, 2020.
Do you want to pay now?
Chip: No, thank you.
Alexa: No problem.
Chip: You probably noticed
that the Capital One voice app
not only answered my question
about my credit card balance,
but it assumed that I probably
wanted to know when my balance
was due, so it asked me, and it
even asked if I wanted to pay my
credit card bill, all
just by using my voice.
But what if I'm looking for
something specific like recent
transactions or how much I
spent at a particular merchant?
Well, all I have to do is ask.
Alexa, ask Capital One what
my recent transactions are.
Alexa: Between April 30 and
May 30, you have 17 transactions
for a total of $535.63.
It looks like you also had a
credit of $218.49; $72.15 at
Harris Teeter on May 27,
followed by $19.28 at Circle K
on May 27, and $4.88 at
Harris Teeter on May 26.
Would you like to hear more?
Chip: That's all.
Alexa: Good
talking to you today.
Chip: Okay, or
how about this one.
Alexa, ask Capital One how
much I paid to CVS last month.
Alexa: Between April 1 and
April 30, you spent a
total of $187.85.
Chip: Okay, now voice
technology is still advancing.
It's still in its early phases,
but the capabilities are growing
exponentially right now.
So while the voice app is the
presentation layer, obviously
the information is coming
from the Capital One systems.
So I'm not sure what time
zone you're in, but in North
Carolina, it's supper
time, so let's order pizza.
Pepperoni, jalapeño, and extra
cheese are my favorite toppings.
You might not know this about
me, but I live a little bit
outside the city, in the
country on a little farm.
It's close enough to the city to
be able to commute in, but it's
far enough that I'm outside the
delivery zone for Domino's, but
that doesn't stop me
from ordering a pizza.
I just have to go pick it up.
Since I have an Alexa wearable
and Alexa auto--and actually,
I've got Google and stuff like
that too, but, anyway, I can
actually start driving to
Domino's and say, "Alexa, I'd
like to order a
pizza from Domino's."
Alexa: What type of crust
do you want for your pizza?
You can choose hand-tossed,
gluten-free crust, Brooklyn
style, hand-made pan,
or crunchy-thin crust.
Chip: Crunchy-thin crust.
Alexa: What size would you
like for your crunchy-thin
crust pizza?
You can choose medium or large.
Chip: Large.
Alexa: I've got a
large, thin, cheese pizza.
What toppings would
you like with that?
Chip:
Pepperoni and jalapeños.
Alexa: Okay,
pepperoni and jalapeño peppers.
Would you like any
more toppings on that?
Chip: Extra cheese, please.
Alexa: Okay, I've added
a large, thin pizza with
pepperoni, jalapeño peppers,
and extra cheese to your order.
What would you like next?
Chip: I'd like
to check out now.
Alexa: Would you like to
complete your order by adding a
16-piece Parmesan
Bread Bites for $3.99?
Chip: No, thank you.
Alexa: Your order
contains one pizza.
The total is
$18.24, after taxes.
Would you like to review your
order details, or are
you ready to check out?
Chip: I'm ready to check out.
Alexa: Your order should be
ready for pickup in about
12 to 22 minutes.
Do you want me to
place the order?
Chip: Yes.
Alexa: Okay, I've
placed your order.
Your day just got cheesier.
Chip: Notice how they walk
me through the entire
process of ordering a pizza.
They even tried to up-sell
me for the cheesy sticks.
Anyway, I think it was actually
quicker than pulling out my cell
phone and finding the number
for Domino's and
talking to a real person.
And since it takes me about
15 minutes to get to Domino's,
perfect timing.
I can get in my car and head out
there, and it was gonna be ready
when I got there.
So many of you listen to
podcasts, or maybe you
were a podcaster.
How easy is it for you to listen
to a historical podcast or try
to let people know, "Here's how
to listen to this podcast
that I did in the past that's
got the information
that you're looking for"?
In this "Audio Banding" podcast
by Jodi Krangle, she has a lot
of great information, but
episodes 35 and 36 are actually
her most important episodes, and
you'll see why in just a second.
Jodi's invocation name
is "Audio Branding."
What if you could listen to
any past episode just by saying
something like, "Okay, Google,
ask 'Audio Branding'
to play episode 35."
Google Assistant: Got it.
Getting "Audio Branding."
♪♪♪
Jodi Krangle: Welcome to
"Audio Branding," the
hidden gem of marketing.
I'm your host, Jodi Krangle.
In this podcast, we'll
discuss just how sound
influences our behavior.
I generally talk about this in
the context of advertising and
marketing, but there are other
places this is important too.
I really feel that it plays a
much more important role in our
lives than maybe we realize,
so let's delve a little deeper.
This is the first part of
my interview with Chip Edwards.
Whether you like it or
not, smart speakers like Amazon
Alexa are used by
millions of people.
The same voice-assistant
technology found in smart
speakers is also used in
smartphones, cars,
wearables, and more.
Voice assistants are everywhere,
and they're changing
how people consume content.
Amazon and Google have made a
way for you to register your
brand on these voice assistants.
My guest today is technologist
and teacher Chip Edwards, and
he's spoken across the
country about the opportunities
available on this new platform
and how you can own and manage
your verbal brand on
these new devices.
The future is here, and
we're gonna talk about it.
Thanks for
joining me today, Chip.
I really appreciate it.
Chip: Okay, so now you know
why episodes 35 and 36
are her most important episodes.
It just happened to be the
ones that I was on for.
So, but let's--so audio is
already relatively easy to be
able to put on to smart speakers
and digital voice assistants,
but let's look at this one here.
Many of you
actually know Aida Correa.
In addition to being a
fantastic speaker, she's
got a wonderful blog.
So what if you could listen to
her blog posts while
you were commuting to work?
Aida's voice app connects to her
WordPress website and makes her
blog posts available.
Let's start her voice app by
using her invocation name,
"Love Built Life."
Alexa, start "Love Built Life."
Alexa: Welcome to
"Love Built Life."
There is a new blog post
available, titled
"The Joy of Overcoming: A Decade
in Retrospect, Part Two."
Would you like to
hear the new blog post?
Chip: Yes.
Alexa: "I didn't bring
you on this journey of the last
ten years of my life to
give all the gloom and doom.
No, sir, because you've seen the
last few years of this decade
that has been a turnaround in
my situation and my friends.
She met a nice young man at
work, and they are now engaged
to be married, yay."
Chip: And the blog post
goes on, and it
would've read it for you.
I'm just doin' the first
piece of each of these
pieces of content.
So the point is that she can
continue to write blog posts
like she likes to do, but now
anyone can listen to
them just by asking.
So William Jackson has been a
WordCamp speaker and supporter
all over the place.
I've run into him in I
don't know how many
different WordCamps.
He's also a prolific
blogger with content that
everybody should hear.
Read, hear?
Both, actually.
William wanted to add some
character to his blog posts
though, so not only does his
voice app connect up with his
WordPress website, but instead
of having the default smart
speaker voice read his blog
post, his sound is different.
William's blog and invocation
name is "My Quest to Teach."
So let's ask for it.
Alexa, ask "My Quest to Teach"
to play the latest blog post.
Alexa: This is blog post 77,
and it's titled "Using
WordPress to Share Your Voice
and Address Social Issues."
Brian: "'Using WordPress
to Share Your Voice and Address
Social Issues,' instructor,
William Jackson, M.Ed.
Intro: there is a growing need
for content creators from
diverse backgrounds to tell
their stories, to share their
experiences and to encourage
the need and acceptance for
diversity in using the ability
to speak, write, teach, and
deliver transformative content."
Chip: So he had a different
voice, actually, read his blog
post, and it's all done--this
is all automatic, and matter of
fact, these audio clips
were done earlier in the year.
They actually just, both Google
and Amazon, upgraded their
text-to-speech synthesis
process, so the voices are
actually getting
significantly better.
Anyway, let's look at one more.
So I write a blog as well.
I use my blog posts to not just
write about voice technology but
to demonstrate some
of the possibilities.
So my invocation name is "Create
My Voice," and what you're about
to hear is me asking my
smart speaker to play one
of my past blog posts.
And just to prep you,
you're going to hear the voice
assistant whisper, use different
English-speaking voices, and
even use voices from other
languages, all from
within my blog post.
And in a minute, I'm gonna
show you, kind of,
how some of that is done.
And so I'm gonna actually have
it read my entire blog post.
It takes two or three minutes,
somethin' like that, so we've
got a few minutes for it.
So let's listen to my blog post
get read by a smart speaker.
Alexa, ask Create My
Voice to read blog post 27.
Alexa: Let's get started.
This blog post is titled,
"Bringing Life to Your Content."
Greetings, I'm Alexa, Amazon's
smart speaker voice assistant.
With a little help from Create
My Voice, I can read
your blog posts aloud.
Now your audience can listen
to your blog posts while making
breakfast, working
out, or driving to work.
It's really easy.
The Create My Voice team
connects me up to your blog
posts using your RSS feed
and a custom voice application.
This means that you can keep
blogging like you always have
and take advantage of the
new smart-speaker platform.
Your audience will ask for your
blog by name, and I'll
read your latest post.
I can read your older posts as
well, and I've heard this is
available on Google devices,
including every Android device
on the planet.
But since I'm an Amazon Alexa,
you didn't hear that from me.
In addition to just reading your
blog, I can help you bring life
to your blog.
If I was going to tell
you a secret--
[whispering]
I would whisper it to you.
[speaking at normal volume]
But even cooler than that,
I can change my voice.
This might be difficult to
describe, so let me demonstrate.
I have several friends.
I'll have them
introduce themselves.
[speaking in British accent]
Brian: My name is Brian.
If it's not clear, I'm
from across the pond.
[speaking in American accent]
Joanna: Hi, my name is Joanna.
I'm really glad
to meet you here.
[speaking in Indian accent]
Raveena: Greetings,
my name is Raveena.
I'm also available to read
all or part of your blog posts.
Alexa: I told you
it was pretty cool.
Being able to use multiple
voices in your blog posts can
bring your blog posts to life
in a world where your audience
wants to listen instead of read.
In addition to multiple English
voices, I can also speak using
voices from other languages.
I'll show you by greeting you
in French, Spanish, and German.
First, a male French voice.
Mathieu: Bonjour.
[speaking French]
Alexa: Next, a
female Spanish voice.
Conchita:
[speaking Spanish]
Alexa: And,
finally, a male German voice.
Hans: [speaking German]
Alexa: Pretty cool,
don't you think?
Like the additional English
voices, these are available
to bloggers to expand how
you communicate
through your blog posts.
This concludes the post titled
"Bringing Life to Your Content."
Would you like to hear the next
blog post titled "How Does Voice
Technology Work,
An Introduction"?
Chip: No, that's all.
Alexa: Thank you.
Chip: So what I wanted to
demonstrate there is that this
idea of being able to take our
content and make it available or
present our brand is--there's
a lot of stuff that
could happen in that space.
So while you can go to my
website and read my blog posts,
sometimes it's more
informative or fun to
actually listen to them.
But you're probably wondering
how that magic happens.
So similar to HTML tags, there's
a standard set of tags that
provide directions to the
text-to-speech process.
It's called SSML, or Speech
Synthesis Markup Language.
Let me show you one of the tags.
So here's an excerpt out
of one of my blog posts.
Looks pretty standard, but
let me pull up the source.
So you'll notice there's a new
tag that I've embedded into the
blog post, a voice tag.
There's that one, and then
there's that one right there.
So let's listen to how
Amazon Alexa turns
this text into speech.
Alexa: "'Alexa
and the Elderly.'
Comments from participants.
This first commenter shares
how Alexa opened her world."
Raveena: "I thought
Alexa was just for things like
turning on lights, but it
opened a whole new world.
You can do anything
that you want to do."
Alexa: "And this last comment
references how using Alexa helps
someone with
physical difficulties."
Brian: "I
have a genetic tremor.
So entering data is a pain.
The ability to speak a command
and get something to happen
is a wonderful thing."
Chip: So notice that my blog
post looks like any blog post or
a excerpt out of my blog post
here, but when it gets turned
into speech, we can bring life
to our blog posts or to any of
our written content as we use
these voice assistants to be
able to communicate
with our audience.
So normally, that's where I
would stop, but I've got a few
more minutes, and so I've got
some bonus material for you.
So I've used that term
"invocation name" a number of
times, so let's--I wanna
dig into it just a little bit
because there are some
interesting nuances with this
idea of an invocation name.
So with our websites, one of the
first things that we think about
is choosing a good domain
name that represents our brand.
Now, in 1995, we could just
use our brand name as our domain
name, but it's not
quite that simple anymore.
Matter of fact, sometimes we
pick our domain name first, and
then that's how we decide what
our brand name is, but getting a
good domain name now is a
little bit more challenging.
But when we think about the
voice-assistant world, we have
to have to think
about sounds, not sights.
So let me explain what I mean.
Let's say that I'm really good
at giving my two cents out to
everyone I meet, and I am, but
anyway, so, but, obviously, I
would want to build a website
and get the domain name of
"TwoCents," right?
So let's say I could get the
domain name at "TwoCents."
Okay, I'm good.
But what about this domain
name of "Two-Cents.com"?
Or "2Cents.com,"
with the number 2?
Or "ToCents.com," spelled T-O
Cents instead of T-W-O, or
T-O-O Cents.com.
And that's not even addressing
the idea of, you know, the "dot
org," the "dot net,"
"dot ai," "dot--"
all the other top-level
domains out there.
So when we think about branding,
and we think about "I'm building
a website, I need a domain
name," we think kind of visually
when we look at that, but when
we look at the verbal side of
it, how many different ways
are there to say, "Two Cents"?
Well, there's only one way of
being able to make the sounds of
"two cents," and this was just
the "Two Cents" with "Cents"
spelled C-E-N-T-S, but what
about the "Two Cents" when we
use a different form of "Cents"?
Or the other form of "Cents"?
And so, in other words, when we
look at this, we have this idea
of this collision that happens
because sometimes in the visual
world, we think that "Here's my
brand," but when we go to the
audio world, sometimes we have
these collisions, and so who's
gonna own the voice app that's
connected with the invocation
name of "Two Cents"?
So how that works is, with
Amazon, what they did is they
said, "Okay, we're gonna let
multiple voice apps have the
same domain name or the same
invocation name,
same verbal domain name."
It causes some confusion because
now the user has to figure out
which version of "Two Cents"
did they want because there's
multiple of 'em out there.
Google went the other way.
They went the same way
that the domain name is.
They said the first person that
builds that Google action or the
voice app in the Google
voice-assistant world, they're
the ones that whoever does that
now owns the verbal version of
the sounds "Two Cents."
So, in that case, it's
kind of like 1995 right now.
You can get your invocation
name, but the first person that
gets it is gonna own it, and
they're gonna be the ones that
decide what is that dialogue
that happens whenever somebody
invokes that invocation name
of "Two Cents" or whatever
your brand name is.
So that's one of the things that
you wanna think about in the
idea of verbal branding of--your
domain name or your verbal
domain name is somethin' that
you're gonna wanna look at, you
know, I would suggest
sooner as opposed to later.
Before, we were usin' the
domain--or the invocation
name of Capital One.
Let's look at that one, even.
So if I'm thinkin' about Capital
One, CapitalOne.com, right, and
they probably own that name,
but there's multiple ways of
spelling "Capital," and there's
multiple ways of spelling "One,"
and even words that sound like
"One" or close enough that you
might not be able to--the voice
assistant might not be able to
pick up the difference between
the sounds, and so, when you
register for an invocation name,
you're actually registering for
the sounds that happen, not
the spelling that happens.
Okay, so let's start to
finish up with a quote here.
Britt Armour from Clearbridge
Mobile wrote that "Voice is the
future for how brands are gonna
interact with their customers."
So let me do a quick recap
before we get to questions.
Voice assistant technology means
that the visually impaired don't
have to figure out how to
navigate a sighted world because
we're using computers to shift
the cognitive load from
the user to the computer.
This is a transformational
mind-set shift, and it's
changing how we think
about user-interface designs.
We're changing our UI/UX from
"How can we make
computers easy to use?
How can I put a good
user-interface design so the
user can figure out how to
find what he wants or
how to do what he wants?"
we're changing that to "How
can we make computers--
or how can we use computers to
make it easy to get stuff done?"
So we're shifting the cognitive
load from the user having to
figure out how to make something
happen, to the user just says
what he wants, and the computer
has to figure out what that
user's intention is or what that
user wants to happen, and now
the computer
performs the action.
And so we're shiftin' the
cognitive load off of the user
and onto the computers, and
that's a change in how we
actually design systems.
And you'll see that change, not
just in voice assistants, but
you'll see it in chatbots and
stuff like that where a good
chatbot or a good voice
assistant is movin' that
cognitive load off of the user,
into the compute space, and to
be able to do more work, which
is a good thing, but it's a
mental shift for us
developers and designers.
And then there's one final tip
that I wanna leave you with, and
that's I would suggest that you
consider getting your brand's
invocation name sooner as
opposed to later while it's
still relatively easy to get
them because there's not a whole
lot of voice apps out there
right now, but companies are
doin'--there's a lot of
companies actually workin' to
build their presence
on these voice devices.
Okay, so here's my
contact information.
I love talkin'
about voice technology.
I'm available for strategy
sessions, special engagements,
and how I can build a voice
app with your invocation name so
that you can start usin'
this new platform as well.
And that's what I have for
you today, and see
if there's any questions.
David: There
totally are questions, Chip.
Thank you so much.
That was awesome.
We'll go ahead and
start with the first one.
Get my video going there.
Hello, everyone.
All right, first question, "What
practical applications in the
accessibility space that we'll
see first in terms of this smart
speaker technology or
is in place already?
So what practical applications
in the accessibility space that
we'll see first in terms of
smart speaker technology?
Chip: So there's two ways
that this can happen because you
noticed the first--what I was
tryin' to demonstrate is the
idea that now people can just
ask for what they want, and as
the voice apps are built out
more, now the computers are
actually figuring that
out and responding to them.
So instead of having a screen
scraper go through and read
through a website and try
to find different pieces of
information and leave all that
work on the visually impaired to
figure out "How can I find
what I want, and how can I make
things happen?"--
very, very difficult.
I mean, they're good at it.
I've seen some of the visually
impaired actually use some of
those screen readers, and
it's amazing, actually.
But we're still putting the
cognitive load on them, and we
try to remind people, as
they're building their website
interfaces, to do a good job to
make it so that it's relatively
easy for the screen readers to
get the information, but we're
still leavin' the cognitive load
on the user, on the visually
impaired, to be
able to do that work.
Voice technology changes that
all on its head because now they
can just ask for what
they want and get it.
We're moving that cognitive
load into the compute space.
And it also does
the other thing.
I actually was in a conference
earlier this year, and there was
somebody that actually did a
presentation, and she wasn't
able to speak, but
she was able to type.
And so what she did is that she
put her whole presentation in a
written form and then used voice
technology to turn that written
form into audio so that we
could all listen to what she was
trying to communicate, and
with this new technology and the
different tools with SSML and
stuff like that, it's actually
making it so that she can
actually bring a lot of life
into what she's communicating.
And so I see this voice
technology kind of happening in
both sides of it and really
helping those with accessibility
needs to be able to--it's now
their world that we're playing
in as opposed to them havin'
to play in the sighted world or
those of us who
don't have those needs.
David: That was really--it
struck--it stood out for me as
you were playing those Alexa
examples how different and more
purpose-built the content
sounded than what you would hear
from a screen reader,
reading a web page.
So my next question is, you
know, how should people think
about creating their
content for voice?
Should it be specific?
I know you kind of showed the
example of someone, just, kind
of, feeding the blog through,
but I'm guessing you're thinking
about the context of the content
related to, you know, voice,
specifically, when
you're leveraging it.
Is that true, or how
do you think of that?
Chip: That's actually a
really good point, and
actually, a really big area to
talk about because
there's two sides to that.
One of 'em is "How can I make
sure my content is in a form
that represents my brand, and
when it gets converted into
audio when people listen to it,
how can it represent
my brand well?
How do I write well, how do I
make sure my heading tags--"
because I can make something
look good on my website
that doesn't turn into
audio very well at all.
But the other side of that is,
lots of times, in our websites,
we think of monolithic text in
long form, and we're expecting
especially with somebody using a
screen reading to have to jump
through all that to find what
they're looking for, and when we
think about actually preparing
stuff for voice assistants, we
now need to think of how do I
put this content in a capsulized
form so that people can ask
for the piece that they want as
opposed to entire, long-form
piece of it and have them listen
to the whole thing to be able
to figure out what they want?
And so it does change how you
actually think about putting
your content together and where
you store it and how you store
it and stuff like that, so, yes.
David: Awesome.
Thank you.
Chip: Good
stuff to think about.
David: Yeah, you showed some
examples of Alexa reading the
content and different
accents with different genders.
I know certainly a lot of people
here at Accessibility Today
strive to be inclusive of those
that represent their brand.
How do you think about
the choice of voice?
Do brands typically choose a
voice, or will they vary it
based on the author?
Or I don't know if you've given
much thought to diversity as it
relates to the voice that
you choose for your content?
Chip: So that's a good
question, and from a brand
perspective, there's kind
of--there's a wide range of that
because you've got from the
simple of "I'm just using the
default reader," whatever that
is, and in some cases, like, I
think, Google is pretty good
at letting the user choose what
voice they want to be able
to hear their content in.
So there's--that's a good thing.
But when you think about the
ability to use those voice tags
and be able to, kind of, add
some differentiation in your
content, so there's some
opportunities there, and as
you're--what I tried to do is
saying, okay, "Here, we're gonna
read back and forth, and we're
gonna use different ethnicities
to be able to read content, to
be able to add some additional
diversity and an interest into
a blog post," but then, from a
branding perspective, you can
actually even go as far as--I
think it was KFC, that they
actually recorded their own
voice, Colonel Sanders's voice,
and they have a whole set of
specific for their brand, their
voice models, and now they
can do the same thing.
They can put in their text,
and it gets converted into the
Colonel Sanders's voice, using
that voice model, and it could
be very brand specific.
So there's a wide range but
definitely something to think
about as you're looking at
diversity of making sure that
you're not just saying,
"Hey, I want this US
male to read all of my content."
It's something that you can
think about 'cause there's
multiple US male voices and
female voices and other
English voices, and then other
language voices as well.
I mean, there's lots of
opportunities there to be able
to demonstrate
diversity in your content.
David: Yeah, I'm sure it gets
tricky when you start thinking
about the voice
representing the author as well.
Chip: Right.
David: Thank you for that.
All right, next question,
"What types of smart-speaker
automations will most benefit
the Ally community that
you can share with us?"
So what is, you know, most
exciting for you, for how it
will support the Ally
community accessibility?
Chip: So, for me, the biggest
excitement in this space is this
idea of design-thinking shifts
because a lot of us, when we
think of UI/UX, we're really
thinking about "How can I build
this for a sighted person on my
site to be able to
navigate my site well?"
And lots of times, it's a
secondary thought of,
"Oh, wait a minute.
What if--how can I support
somebody that's visually
impaired of some way?"
And, "Okay, how much effort am I
willing to go into, to be
able to accommodate that?"
Because my sighted design
is really important to me.
I like my sliding windows and
all that kind of stuff that
sometimes give grief to, you
know, those who are visually
impaired, but it's--and so
it's a balance of
"Which do I want more?"
I think that the opportunities
in the voice space though kind
of turns that on its head
from the perspective of "I'm
designing for all of my audience
the same now because, if I have
to build this system that nobody
is seeing, the sighted part is
secondary, and all of
it is audio up front.
How can I accommodate everybody,
not just a sighted person?"
Matter of fact, the first time
I did one of my talks, somebody
came up to me afterwards, and he
said, "You just did this fancy
new technology, smart-speaker
world talk, but really, it was a
diversity talk in
disguise, wasn't it?"
Because we talked about this
idea of "How do I present my
information in such a way that
everybody is gonna get the same
experience out of it?"
David: I think that's a great
observation, that paradigm shift
towards voice and kind of
being assistive in that sense of
getting brands on
board with accessibility.
Next question--
Chip: Now, just
one more comment.
David: Oh, yeah, please.
Chip: Now, and I--
want to say it again--is voice
technology doesn't solve
all accessibility issues.
It does solve some accessibility
issues, and it makes us think
about how we can deliver our
content or engage with our
audience in a way that supports
accessibility, but it's not--it
doesn't solve all
of our problems.
It's just a tool, a platform
that helps us get out of some of
our mind-set of "I'm supporting
this set of people, and now,
wait a minute, I should
also help these people too.
How can I do that without
messing up my cool stuff?"
It makes it so that, no, you're
building cool stuff that happens
to be for everybody, not
just by sighted people.
David: That's a
great point of distinction.
Thank you so much.
Next question is
from Amber Hines.
Hey, Amber.
I know you from around the way.
"How do voice tags impact the
experience for users on screen
readers like NVDA,
JAWS, and VoiceOver?
Do they read those tags
or just ignore them?"
Chip: So I don't know
the answer to that question.
I do know that those voice tags
and some of the other SSML tags,
they're a set standard, so it's
not like, "Oh, this is
only done for smart speakers."
It's a set of standard tags,
and there's actually quite a few
tags that you can do a lot
of different things with.
So my assumption is that a good,
well-rounded screen reader would
use those tags in a way.
I do know that the voice
assistants use the--accommodate
the--some or a lot of the SSML
tags and in--to varying degrees.
Like, Amazon, I did the Amazon
examples on purpose because
Amazon supports almost all of
the SSML tags, and so I was able
to do the voice
switching and stuff like that.
Google doesn't support the
voice tag yet, so they're still
building out that tag, but
they support most of
the other SSML tags.
So my assumption is yes, they
would either ignore it, and/or
they would be able to handle
them, but I don't know enough.
I haven't experimented with
them to be able to say for sure.
David: Thank you, thank you;
if you know the answer,
maybe you can post it
in a YouTube chat and--
Chip: There you go.
That'd be good.
David: List
an answer there.
Chip, I think you probably
spurred a invocation name, like,
rush, like, the domain rushes
when they would release the new
TLDs, and, like, everyone would
go register all these domains.
I feel like that last slide of
yours really probably got some
people off their rear and
were, you know, Googling
how to figure that out.
Have you experienced--you
mentioned how not a lot of
people that are leveraging the
invocation names, but have you
experienced yet when a brand
has an invocation name that's
already claimed, that's, like,
their brand and that kind of
fight that we see over
the domain name space?
Chip: So, I--how do
I answer that right?
So what I can say is that to be
able to get an invocation name,
you have to build a voice app
and have it certified by the
respective party, either Amazon
or Google or Samsung or--and in
that certification process is
when they say, "Okay, yes, your
voice app is certified, and
that invocation name works
for your voice app."
And in Google's case, it's
like, "Okay, you now own
that invocation name."
What I have seen is--matter of
fact, I had one of my clients
call me up the other day,
and he's a podcaster, and when
people were asking for his
podcast, which is "What's your
Excuse"--there's a
multiple "What's Your Excuse"
podcasts out there, and Amazon
was choosing somebody else's
"What's Your Excuse"
podcast by default.
And so he said, "Hey,
what can we do about that?"
Well, we can build a voice app,
and we can use the invocation
name of "What's Your Excuse"
and so now when people say,
"Play 'What's Your Excuse,'"
Amazon says, "Oh, hey,
there's a voice app
out there with the
invocation name, 'What's
Your Excuse.'
We'll use that to decide what
content should be delivered."
And so now, when you say, "Play
'What's Your Excuse'" on the
Amazon devices, his podcast gets
played instead of Amazon getting
to decide who--whatever
one they wanna play.
So the answer is yes, the
invocation name is gonna kind of
change thing on its head.
Very, very few people know that
this invocation name is gonna be
a really big deal in the
voice assistant space.
And so that's usually
at the end of my talk.
That's one of the big things,
it's like, "Okay, wait
a minute, so what do I do?
Because I got a brand, and
I wanna manage that," so--
David: It doesn't sound
like SEO is dying, Chip.
Chip: No, no.
David: Feel like
SEO is here to stay.
Well, this was amazing.
I learned so much from this
presentation, thank you so much.
Chip: You're absolutely welcome.
Thank you for havin' me.
This was--it was great to
talk, and good questions.
I appreciate 'em.
David: Yeah, thank you, thank
you, I have a little history
of voice, so I had wanted to
nerd all out on it,
but I wish we had
more time, but thank you all for
attending this session
with Chip Edwards and myself.